# Enhanced Distance Matrix Computation and Visualization

Clustering methods classify data samples into groups of similar objects.
This process requires some methods for measuring the distance or the
(dis)similarity between the observations. Read more: [STHDA website -
clarifying distance
measures.](http://www.sthda.com/english/wiki/clarifying-distance-measures-unsupervised-machine-learning).

- get_dist(): Computes a distance matrix between the rows of a data
  matrix. Compared to the standard
  [`dist`](https://rdrr.io/r/stats/dist.html)() function, it supports
  correlation-based distance measures including "pearson", "kendall" and
  "spearman" methods.

- fviz_dist(): Visualizes a distance matrix

## Usage

``` r
get_dist(x, method = "euclidean", stand = FALSE, ...)

fviz_dist(
  dist.obj,
  order = TRUE,
  show_labels = TRUE,
  lab_size = NULL,
  gradient = list(low = "red", mid = "white", high = "blue")
)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  a numeric matrix or a data frame.

- method:

  the distance measure to be used. This must be one of "euclidean",
  "maximum", "manhattan", "canberra", "binary", "minkowski", "pearson",
  "spearman" or "kendall".

- stand:

  logical value; default is FALSE. If TRUE, then the data will be
  standardized using the function scale(). Measurements are standardized
  for each variable (column), by subtracting the variable's mean value
  and dividing by the variable's standard deviation.

- ...:

  other arguments to be passed to the function dist() when using
  get_dist().

- dist.obj:

  an object of class "dist" as generated by the function dist() or
  get_dist().

- order:

  logical value. if TRUE the ordered dissimilarity image (ODI) is shown.

- show_labels:

  logical value. If TRUE, the labels are displayed.

- lab_size:

  the size of labels.

- gradient:

  a list containing three elements specifying the colors for low, mid
  and high values in the ordered dissimilarity image. The element "mid"
  can take the value of NULL.

## Value

- get_dist(): returns an object of class "dist".

- fviz_dist(): returns a ggplot2

## See also

[`dist`](https://rdrr.io/r/stats/dist.html)

## Author

Alboukadel Kassambara <alboukadel.kassambara@gmail.com>

## Examples

``` r
data(USArrests)
res.dist <- get_dist(USArrests, stand = TRUE, method = "pearson")

fviz_dist(res.dist, 
   gradient = list(low = "#00AFBB", mid = "white", high = "#FC4E07"))
```
